Git Cheat Sheet & Operations Guide

(1) Create Repo from Git File
Initialize a new local repository or copy an existing one from a remote server.
git init: Initializes a new, empty Git repository in the current directory.

git clone [URL]: Downloads a project and its entire version history from a remote URL (e.g., GitHub or GitLab).

(2) Remote Synchronization (Fetch vs. Pull)
Manage the connection between your local environment and the remote repository.

git fetch: Downloads objects and refs from another repository. It lets you see what others have worked on without merging those changes into your local files.
git pull: Fetches the data from the remote and immediately attempts to merge it into your current local branch.

Note: git pull is essentially git fetch followed by git merge.

(3) Branching & Switching

Use branches to isolate development work without affecting the main codebase.

git branch [branch-name]: Creates a new branch at the current commit.
git checkout [branch-name]: Switches your working directory to the specified branch.
Shortcut: git checkout -b [branch-name] creates a new branch and switches to it instantly.
git merge [branch-name]: Combines the specified branch’s history into your current branch.

(4) Visualizing History in VS Code
While the command line is powerful, visualizing the "Git Tree" helps track complex merges and branch structures.

Extension Recommended: Git Graph

How to use it:

Open VS Code and go to the Extensions view (Ctrl+Shift+X).
Search for and install "Git Graph".
Once installed, click the Git Graph icon in the bottom status bar or the icon at the top of your Source Control view.
Interface Features:

Commit History: View a color-coded tree of all branches and merges.
Details: Click a commit to see modified files and code diffs.
Actions: Right-click on a branch or commit to perform actions like merge, rebase, or tag directly from the UI.

(5) Common Daily Workflow
A typical sequence for saving your work:

git status: Check which files are modified.
git add .: Stage all changes for the next commit.
git commit -m "Your descriptive message": Record your changes to the version history.
git push origin [branch-name]: Upload your local commits to the remote server.




git remote add origin https://github.com/Physicsphotonmodel/Git_functions_trying.git
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main